.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH engraver\-config 1  "engraver 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
engraver\-config \- Manage configuration settings
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBengraver config\fR [\fB\-\-init\fR] [\fB\-\-path\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
View and manage Engraver's persistent configuration settings.
When run without flags, displays the current configuration values.
.PP
Configuration settings provide default values for command-line options.
Command-line flags always take precedence over configuration file settings.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-init\fR
Create a new configuration file with default values.
Will not overwrite an existing configuration file.
.TP
\fB\-\-path\fR
Print the path to the configuration file and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR
Output current settings in JSON format for scripting.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The configuration file is located at:
.TP
\fBLinux/macOS:\fR
~/.config/engraver/engraver_config.toml
.TP
\fBWindows:\fR
%APPDATA%\\engraver\\engraver_config.toml
.PP
A custom configuration file can be specified with the \fB\-\-config\-file\fR
global option.
.SS Sections
.TP
\fB[write]\fR
Default block size, verify, checkpoint, retry settings, and read buffer size.
.TP
\fB[checksum]\fR
Default algorithm and auto-detection settings.
.TP
\fB[behavior]\fR
Confirmation prompts and quiet mode defaults.
.TP
\fB[benchmark]\fR
Default block size, test size, data pattern, passes, and JSON output.
.TP
\fB[network]\fR
HTTP timeout, URL validation timeout, and cloud storage chunk size.
.SH EXAMPLES
View current configuration:
.PP
.nf
    engraver config
.fi
.PP
Create a default configuration file:
.PP
.nf
    engraver config \-\-init
.fi
.PP
Show where the configuration file is stored:
.PP
.nf
    engraver config \-\-path
.fi
.PP
Pipe configuration as JSON to another tool:
.PP
.nf
    engraver config \-\-json | jq '.write.block_size'
.fi
.PP
Use a custom configuration file:
.PP
.nf
    engraver \-\-config\-file ./my\-config.toml write image.iso /dev/sdb
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBengraver\fR(1), \fBengraver\-write\fR(1), \fBengraver\-benchmark\fR(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Engraver Contributors
