.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH engraver\-write 1  "engraver 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
engraver\-write \- Write an image to a drive
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBengraver write\fR [\fB\-\-verify\fR] [\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR] [\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-\-block\-size\fR \fI<SIZE>\fR] [\fB\-\-checksum\fR \fI<HASH>\fR] [\fB\-\-checksum\-algo\fR \fI<ALGO>\fR] [\fB\-\-auto\-checksum\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-unmount\fR] [\fB\-\-checkpoint\fR] [\fB\-\-resume\fR] [\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-show\-partitions\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] <\fISOURCE\fR> <\fITARGET\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Write a disk image to a target device. The source can be a local file, an
HTTP/HTTPS URL, or a cloud storage URL (s3://, gs://, az://). Compressed
images (.gz, .xz, .zst, .bz2) are automatically detected and decompressed
during the write.
.PP
When \fB\-\-verify\fR is specified, Engraver performs parallel verification by
hashing the source data during the write pass, then reading back the target
and comparing checksums. This is significantly faster than a separate verify step.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
<\fISOURCE\fR>
Source image. Can be a local file path, HTTP/HTTPS URL, or cloud storage URL
(s3://bucket/key, gs://bucket/object, az://container/blob).
.TP
<\fITARGET\fR>
Target device (e.g., /dev/sdb, /dev/disk2, \\\\.\\PhysicalDrive1).
.TP
\fB\-\-verify\fR
Verify write integrity by hashing source data during the write pass, then
reading back the target and comparing checksums. Falls back to sequential
verification when resuming a partial write (\fB\-\-resume\fR).
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Skip confirmation prompt. Use with caution.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-block\-size\fR \fI<SIZE>\fR [default: 4M]
Block size for writing (e.g., 4M, 1M, 512K). Larger block sizes may improve
throughput. Use \fBengraver benchmark \-\-test\-block\-sizes\fR to find the optimal
value for your drive.
.TP
\fB\-\-checksum\fR \fI<HASH>\fR
Verify the source image checksum against the given expected hash value before writing.
.TP
\fB\-\-checksum\-algo\fR \fI<ALGO>\fR [default: sha256]
Checksum algorithm to use with \fB\-\-checksum\fR. Supported: sha256, sha512, md5.
.TP
\fB\-\-auto\-checksum\fR
Automatically detect and verify checksums from companion files (.sha256, .sha512,
.md5, .sha256sum) alongside the source image. Searches the same directory as
the source file.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-unmount\fR
Do not unmount partitions on the target device before writing.
.TP
\fB\-\-checkpoint\fR
Enable checkpointing so the write can be resumed if interrupted. A checkpoint
file is saved on Ctrl+C or transient errors. Automatically enabled when
\fB\-\-resume\fR is used.
.TP
\fB\-\-resume\fR
Resume a previously interrupted write operation from the last checkpoint.
Requires that the previous write was started with \fB\-\-checkpoint\fR or
\fB\-\-resume\fR.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-show\-partitions\fR
Display the partition layout (MBR or GPT) of the source image before writing.
Works with compressed sources by decompressing the first 64 KB.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information.
.SH EXAMPLES
Write an ISO to a USB drive:
.PP
.nf
    engraver write ubuntu.iso /dev/sdb
.fi
.PP
Write with parallel verification:
.PP
.nf
    engraver write ubuntu.iso /dev/sdb \-\-verify
.fi
.PP
Write a compressed image from a URL:
.PP
.nf
    engraver write https://example.com/image.iso.xz /dev/sdb
.fi
.PP
Write with checkpointing, then resume if interrupted:
.PP
.nf
    engraver write large\-image.iso /dev/sdb \-\-checkpoint
    # If interrupted, resume:
    engraver write large\-image.iso /dev/sdb \-\-resume
.fi
.PP
Verify checksum from a companion .sha256 file automatically:
.PP
.nf
    engraver write ubuntu.iso /dev/sdb \-\-auto\-checksum \-\-verify
.fi
.PP
Inspect partitions before writing:
.PP
.nf
    engraver write ubuntu.iso /dev/sdb \-\-show\-partitions
.fi
.PP
Write from S3 cloud storage:
.PP
.nf
    engraver write s3://my\-bucket/images/firmware.img /dev/sdb
.fi
.PP
Non-interactive write for scripting:
.PP
.nf
    engraver write ubuntu.iso /dev/sdb \-y \-\-verify
.fi
.SH NOTES
.SS Resume Limitations
.IP \(bu 2
\fBLocal files:\fR Always resumable (seekable).
.IP \(bu 2
\fBHTTP/HTTPS sources:\fR Resumable if the server supports Range headers.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBCompressed files:\fR Cannot be resumed due to stream-based decompression.
.PP
When resuming with \fB\-\-verify\fR, verification falls back to sequential mode
(separate read-back pass) since the source checksum from the partial write
is incomplete.
.SS Checkpoints
Checkpoint files are stored in:
.IP \(bu 2
Linux/macOS: ~/.local/state/engraver/checkpoints/
.IP \(bu 2
Windows: %LOCALAPPDATA%\\engraver\\checkpoints\\
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBengraver\fR(1), \fBengraver\-verify\fR(1), \fBengraver\-checksum\fR(1), \fBengraver\-benchmark\fR(1), \fBengraver\-config\fR(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Engraver Contributors
