.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH engraver\-verify 1  "engraver 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
engraver\-verify \- Verify a drive against a source image
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBengraver verify\fR [\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-\-block\-size\fR \fI<SIZE>\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] <\fISOURCE\fR> <\fITARGET\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read back a target device and compare it block-by-block against a source
image to verify write integrity. This is a standalone verification pass
that reads both the source and the device.
.PP
For faster verification during writes, consider using \fBengraver write \-\-verify\fR
instead, which hashes the source data during the write pass and only needs
to read back the device.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
<\fISOURCE\fR>
Source image (local file or URL) to verify against.
.TP
<\fITARGET\fR>
Target device to verify (e.g., /dev/sdb, /dev/disk2, \\\\.\\PhysicalDrive1).
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-block\-size\fR \fI<SIZE>\fR [default: 4M]
Block size for reading during verification.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information.
.SH EXAMPLES
Verify a USB drive against a local image:
.PP
.nf
    engraver verify ubuntu.iso /dev/sdb
.fi
.PP
Verify against a remote image:
.PP
.nf
    engraver verify https://example.com/image.iso /dev/sdb
.fi
.PP
Verify on macOS with a smaller block size:
.PP
.nf
    engraver verify ubuntu.iso /dev/disk2 \-\-block\-size 1M
.fi
.SH NOTES
This command performs a full sequential read of both the source and target,
which can be slow for large images. If you are writing and verifying in the
same session, \fBengraver write \-\-verify\fR is significantly faster because it
hashes the source during the write pass.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBengraver\fR(1), \fBengraver\-write\fR(1), \fBengraver\-checksum\fR(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Engraver Contributors
