.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH engraver\-checksum 1  "engraver 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
engraver\-checksum \- Calculate checksum of an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBengraver checksum\fR [\fB\-a\fR|\fB\-\-algorithm\fR \fI<ALGO>\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] <\fISOURCE\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Calculate and display the checksum of a source image file. Useful for
verifying downloaded images against published checksums before writing
them to a drive.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
<\fISOURCE\fR>
Source image (local file or URL) to calculate the checksum for.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-algorithm\fR \fI<ALGO>\fR [default: sha256]
Checksum algorithm. Supported: sha256, sha512, md5, crc32.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information.
.SH EXAMPLES
Calculate SHA-256 checksum (default):
.PP
.nf
    engraver checksum ubuntu.iso
.fi
.PP
Calculate SHA-512 checksum:
.PP
.nf
    engraver checksum ubuntu.iso \-\-algorithm sha512
.fi
.PP
Calculate checksum of a remote image:
.PP
.nf
    engraver checksum https://example.com/image.iso
.fi
.PP
Compare against a known checksum:
.PP
.nf
    expected="e3b0c44298fc1c149..."
    actual=$(engraver checksum ubuntu.iso)
    [ "$expected" = "$actual" ] && echo "Match" || echo "MISMATCH"
.fi
.SH NOTES
For automatic checksum verification during writes, use \fBengraver write \-\-auto\-checksum\fR
which detects companion .sha256, .sha512, and .md5 files alongside the source image.
.PP
The default algorithm can be configured in the configuration file under
\fB[checksum] algorithm\fR. See \fBengraver\-config\fR(1).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBengraver\fR(1), \fBengraver\-write\fR(1), \fBengraver\-verify\fR(1), \fBengraver\-config\fR(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Engraver Contributors
