.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH engraver\-benchmark 1  "engraver 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
engraver\-benchmark \- Benchmark write speed of a drive
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBengraver benchmark\fR [\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-size\fR \fI<SIZE>\fR] [\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-\-block\-size\fR \fI<BLOCK_SIZE>\fR] [\fB\-\-pattern\fR \fI<PATTERN>\fR] [\fB\-\-passes\fR \fI<N>\fR] [\fB\-\-test\-block\-sizes\fR \fI<SIZES>\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] <\fITARGET\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Test the write speed of a drive before committing to a long write operation.
Writes a configurable amount of test data to the target device and measures throughput.
A color-coded progress bar indicates performance (red \(-> yellow \(-> green \(-> blue).
.PP
\fBWARNING:\fR Benchmarking is a \fBdestructive\fR operation that will overwrite data on the target device.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
<\fITARGET\fR>
Target device (e.g., /dev/sdb, /dev/disk2, \\\\.\\PhysicalDrive1)
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-size\fR \fI<SIZE>\fR
Amount of data to write for the test (e.g., 256M, 1G).
Mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-test\-block\-sizes\fR.
Default from config or 256M.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-block\-size\fR \fI<BLOCK_SIZE>\fR
Block size for writes (e.g., 4K, 1M, 4M).
Must be a power of 2, maximum 64M.
Default from config or 4M.
.TP
\fB\-\-pattern\fR \fI<PATTERN>\fR
Data pattern to write: \fBzeros\fR, \fBrandom\fR, or \fBsequential\fR.
Default from config or zeros.
.TP
\fB\-\-passes\fR \fI<N>\fR
Number of benchmark passes. Results are averaged across passes.
Default from config or 1.
.TP
\fB\-\-test\-block\-sizes\fR \fI<SIZES>\fR
Test multiple block sizes in a single run (comma-separated, e.g., "4K,64K,1M,4M,16M").
Mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-size\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR
Output benchmark results in JSON format for scripting and automation.
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Skip confirmation prompt.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information.
.SH EXAMPLES
Basic benchmark with default settings (256 MB, 4 MB blocks, zeros pattern):
.PP
.nf
    engraver benchmark /dev/sdb
.fi
.PP
Benchmark with 1 GB of random data:
.PP
.nf
    engraver benchmark /dev/sdb \-\-size 1G \-\-pattern random
.fi
.PP
Find the optimal block size for a drive:
.PP
.nf
    engraver benchmark /dev/sdb \-\-test\-block\-sizes "4K,64K,1M,4M,16M"
.fi
.PP
Run 3 passes and output JSON for CI integration:
.PP
.nf
    engraver benchmark /dev/sdb \-\-passes 3 \-\-json
.fi
.SH NOTES
All size values must be powers of 2. Block sizes are limited to 64 MB maximum.
.PP
The \fB\-\-size\fR and \fB\-\-test\-block\-sizes\fR options are mutually exclusive.
When using \fB\-\-test\-block\-sizes\fR, each block size is tested with a proportional
amount of data.
.PP
Default values can be configured in the configuration file under the \fB[benchmark]\fR section.
See \fBengraver\-config\fR(1) for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBengraver\fR(1), \fBengraver\-write\fR(1), \fBengraver\-erase\fR(1), \fBengraver\-config\fR(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Engraver Contributors
