.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH engraver 1  "engraver 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
engraver \- A safe, fast tool for creating bootable USB drives, SD cards, and NVMe drives
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBengraver\fR [\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-q\fR|\fB\-\-quiet\fR] [\fB\-\-config\-file\fR \fI<PATH>\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] <\fIcommand\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Engraver is a fast, safe command-line tool for writing disk images to USB drives,
SD cards, and NVMe drives. It supports local files, HTTP/HTTPS URLs, and cloud
storage sources (S3, GCS, Azure Blob). Compressed images (.gz, .xz, .zst, .bz2)
are automatically decompressed during write.
.PP
Engraver includes multiple safety mechanisms: system drive detection prevents
accidental overwrites, confirmation prompts require explicit consent, and
parallel verification can hash data during the write pass for fast integrity checks.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable verbose output with additional diagnostic information.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress all output except errors.
.TP
\fB\-\-config\-file\fR \fI<PATH>\fR
Use a custom configuration file instead of the default location.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
\fBengraver\-list\fR(1)
List available removable drives with metadata (size, model, USB speed).
.TP
\fBengraver\-write\fR(1)
Write an image to a drive with optional verification and resume support.
.TP
\fBengraver\-verify\fR(1)
Verify a drive's contents against a source image.
.TP
\fBengraver\-checksum\fR(1)
Calculate the checksum of an image file.
.TP
\fBengraver\-benchmark\fR(1)
Benchmark write speed of a drive (destructive).
.TP
\fBengraver\-erase\fR(1)
Erase a drive by zero-filling the entire device.
.TP
\fBengraver\-config\fR(1)
View and manage persistent configuration settings.
.SH EXAMPLES
List available drives:
.PP
.nf
    engraver list
.fi
.PP
Write an ISO to a USB drive with verification:
.PP
.nf
    engraver write ubuntu.iso /dev/sdb \-\-verify
.fi
.PP
Write from a URL with checkpointing for resume support:
.PP
.nf
    engraver write https://example.com/image.iso /dev/sdb \-\-checkpoint
.fi
.PP
Benchmark a drive to find the optimal block size:
.PP
.nf
    engraver benchmark /dev/sdb \-\-test\-block\-sizes "4K,64K,1M,4M"
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
\fB~/.config/engraver/engraver_config.toml\fR
Configuration file (Linux/macOS). See \fBengraver\-config\fR(1).
.TP
\fB~/.local/state/engraver/checkpoints/\fR
Checkpoint files for resume support (Linux/macOS).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBengraver\-write\fR(1), \fBengraver\-list\fR(1), \fBengraver\-verify\fR(1), \fBengraver\-checksum\fR(1), \fBengraver\-benchmark\fR(1), \fBengraver\-erase\fR(1), \fBengraver\-config\fR(1)
.SH VERSION
v0.1.0
.SH AUTHORS
Engraver Contributors
