.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH engraver\-erase 1  "engraver 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
engraver\-erase \- Erase a drive by zero-filling the entire device
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBengraver erase\fR [\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR] [\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-\-block\-size\fR \fI<BLOCK_SIZE>\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-unmount\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] <\fITARGET\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Securely erase a drive by writing zeros to the entire device.
This is useful for wiping a drive before disposal, repurposing, or preparing
it for a fresh partition table.
.PP
\fBWARNING:\fR This operation is \fBdestructive\fR and \fBirreversible\fR. All data on
the target device will be permanently lost.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
<\fITARGET\fR>
Target device (e.g., /dev/sdb, /dev/disk2, \\\\.\\PhysicalDrive1)
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
Skip confirmation prompt. Use with caution.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-block\-size\fR \fI<BLOCK_SIZE>\fR
Block size for writing (e.g., 4M, 1M, 512K).
Default from config or 4M.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-unmount\fR
Do not unmount partitions before erasing.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help information.
.SH EXAMPLES
Erase a USB drive with confirmation prompt:
.PP
.nf
    engraver erase /dev/sdb
.fi
.PP
Erase without confirmation (for scripting):
.PP
.nf
    engraver erase /dev/sdb \-y
.fi
.PP
Erase with a larger block size for faster throughput:
.PP
.nf
    engraver erase /dev/sdb \-\-block\-size 16M
.fi
.PP
Erase on macOS:
.PP
.nf
    engraver erase /dev/disk2
.fi
.SH NOTES
System drive protection prevents accidental erasure of drives containing
system partitions, unless the hidden \fB\-\-force\fR flag is used.
.PP
Partitions on the target device are automatically unmounted before erasing
unless \fB\-\-no\-unmount\fR is specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBengraver\fR(1), \fBengraver\-write\fR(1), \fBengraver\-benchmark\fR(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Engraver Contributors
